[Music]
for kangaroos the greatest challenges
come from within their own society for a
male there's only really one key lesson
to learn in his life they get to the top
he must become a fighter
the battles are so brutal the males need
years of training to prepare the effort
is worth it because a champion fighter
wins privileged access to the females
this Meadow is a boot camp for aspiring
boxers training starts as soon as a
youngster is out of the pouch its mother
is a handy opponent for a young Joey
learning the basics
but he soon off in search of more
sparring partners the other grown-ups
are not so tolerant of this lightweight
[Music]
this male alone
rules the meadow
[Music]
he stands eight feet tall his muscles
hardened by years of sparring
today a challenger for his title has
come forward full-blown fights are so
dangerous they're not entered into
lightly
but when two males square up it's time
to clear the arena
anything goes in these power struggles I
doubting is entirely within the rules
so is kicking below the belt
the dominant male skill is already
telling
[Music]
the stakes are high they risk broken
bones and internal injuries
suddenly it's all over the champion has
beaten off the Challenger at least for
now
[Music]
the tiny wonder that I've come halfway
around the world to find the blue ringed
octopus the ones that have found here
around Sydney are called blue lined
octopus because all running down the
surface in the mantle you can see a
great big long neon light oh look at
that
bright bright color change gorgeous and
but they're still in the blue ringed
octopus group and to show you how it got
its name all I need to do is agitated it
very slightly and you should see the
plainly coloured animal take on
incredible agitated colors bright neon
blue circles look at that wow it's just
electric these are classic warning
colors and they're obviously used to
intimidate animals that might want to
feast on a blue ringed octopus that
would be a very very bad idea because
this is one of the most toxic creatures
on earth
the glorious neon flash colors tell
other predators to just swim on by in
Australia scientists are trying to
increase marsupial numbers using
artificial insemination or AI they've
started with koalas because they're easy
to handle and breed well they hope to
perfect the methods to help rare
marsupials in the wild like grim pea the
hairy-nosed wombat
so how do you do AI well first you have
to collect some sperm and to do that you
go to the Lone Pine Koala Sanctuary in
Brisbane what you're witnessing here is
the courtship behavior of Australia's
national icon the Koala this here is
Titan and he's marking his territory
though this scent plant because it's
been put in with the girls if he plays
his cards right today could be his lucky
day koalas are normally quiet creatures
but things are about to change
Titan has to go in and excite the
females only then will people Poole know
if any of them are ready to mate they
want to collect Titan sperm the problem
is at the moment he's really taking his
time has to introduce what's called
teaser male face to face so we know
she's in she's definitely carrying on
he's interesting so can Liam get the
girls going
[Music]
with young hot-blooded Liam displaying
the enclosure reaches fever pitch head
bobbing bellowing and scent-marking
[Music]
[Applause]
meanwhile Titan just sits back Paula
nearly one of the females is ready but
sorry Liam its Titans but remember this
is artificial insemination so his sperm
has to be collected
Steve Johnston has pioneered this
technique this is where the science
comes into it well it's not too much
science it's basically just flipping
some spam from the Nile and getting in
between em so you're the awful person at
the crucial moment snips in there
absolutely the koalas seem to have no
idea their nuptials are about to be
interrupted Steve gets in between them
to collect Titan sperm in a device made
partly from the top end of a cricket bat
he thinks completely that it's a female
that he's doing the job on thanks coming
here we go it's just a very normal
mating behavior in koalas I mean and
that will stabilize a female will he
inseminate sir so that's perfectly
normal
[Music]
it's finally time to artificially
inseminate one of the females called
beta the process is painless the sperm
is simply squirted into beta if the AI
is a success in 35 days time a tiny baby
koala will make its way into betas pouch
the team will be one step closer to
helping rare marsupials like grim P I
thought it looked crude but Mark said
that if you control the crocodile with
ropes you allow it to go into its
natural attack role which will exhaust
the thing from yesterday saying that
crocodiles you know I didn't like them
what have you you know it must be pretty
daunting for an animal to be locked in
the pen like that for a while and then
for 20 big men to come in and attack it
or not attack it but get it rope it roll
it must be pretty scary for me I think
that Mouse could easily kill me easily
kill me
only once it's tired out is it safe to
do something about that mouth now can
you jump on it it's amazing to think the
cover in its eyes and sitting on it
actually calms the thing down enough to
take its mouth shut it's just basically
to take that's enough to secure its jaws
mart was on a bit of a mission to change
my mind about these crocs
Natalie if you want to come in and take
Bill's place on the machine let's see
I'd like you to stay on the legs if
you're up there you can actually feel it
really animal you guys comfortable
yep okay the SEC's coming off his eyes I
can't so any movement absolutely still
okay now what's he doing there
[Laughter]
part of my team's job was to do a
population study about the sexing nearly
barely doing this study mark has handled
enough crocodiles to know what makes
them fleet and sexing them apparently
doesn't faze them and you tailed by the
size yeah so give me the hint already
okay so that's the vent thing yeah what
you're gonna do is you gonna force you
you hear nothing into that yeah keep on
forcing it and at some stage here you're
gonna feel a really solid like you're
talking your finger oh yeah oh it's a
bit big so this is actually a mile is it
through mama this would expect bigger
[Laughter]
[Music]
we get him up here and he's not the
strain of his head they're just ten
years ago a crop like this one would
have been shot at least now he faces
some kind of a future being a fertile
male he was being sent off to become a
breeder in a crocodile farm then
something really strange happened I
locked into that trailer and I swear the
crocodile right back at me I had made
eye contact with an 11-foot predator
someone said to me when I asked about a
crocodile if they like them or not I
don't really like and by overlong
respectful and I do believe I agree with
that phrase respect is there any way I
think
but although Stella is inundated with
Roos and wallabies none of them take up
as much of her time as young wallaby
Neal
[Music]
he's an orphan from a car accident where
his mum was killed and nails been with
us one week Neil is just one and a half
months old in the wild he'd be around
nine months before he left his mother's
pouch he doesn't have a second coat he's
just got the light top coat that he has
while he's in his mum's pouch we do call
them little Velvets I'm covering his
eyes and little bit in Mom's pouch it's
a bit it's darker than here he's getting
a bit used to it so it's not too
stressful in the first three days here
he cried out at nighttime for his mum
that's heartbreaking to listen to him
call out for his mum what we do then is
we picked them up
and I put him in the bed with me so he
can feel my heartbeat the moment I
picked him up and cuddled him and held
him next to my heart the crying stopped
because they developed for so long in
the pouch the beating of their mother's
heart is deeply comforting for baby
marsupials research shows that maternal
nurture physically changes brain
chemistry and alters the way a
youngsters body responds to stress
without this closeness and reassurance
orphans have been known to die of
anxiety but with new animals arriving
all the time
Stella can't always be there for Neil
and he urgently needs a companion the
same size and age who he can hang out
with
[Music]